# Whitepaper(en)

## Introduction
HUPAYX has steadily developed to achieve seamless transactions between digital assets and fiat payment area such as e-money and mobile payment. In addition, we intend to improve user convenience significantly by increasing transmission and payment speeds and streamlining procedures. Hupayx will ultimately expand the ecosystem to include various business models such as Decentralized EXchange (DEX), Non-Fungible Token (NFT) platform, and digital content management.
This expansion of the participants is only conceivable when the reliability of valid verification model and scalability without constraining transaction limit are ensured.
As a result, Hupayx introduces Taycan, a new blockchain mainnet designed to make it easier for digital asset issuers and holders to add decentralized capabilities and support various activities of community’s governance by providing smart contract and virtual machine services.

## Development Premise
### Independent Blockchain
Taycan is the next version of the current blockchain Hupayx (HPX). It is essentially the same blockchain based on tendermint, but it has developed as an independent blockchain to improve features like Inter‐Blockchain Communication protocol (IBC) and Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), and it operates normally even if the current Hupayx mainnet is shut down. The name of coin has changed from Hupayx to Shuffle as our mainnet has switched to Taycan, and the symbol (ticker) of Shuffle is SFL, and current HPX coins will be transferred to Taycan

### Ethereum Compatibility
Taycan is compatible with the current Ethereum mainnet and is available to support upgrades of Ethereum in future.

### Staking consensus and governance
Taycan allows the governance and consensus mechanism of Proof-of-Stake (PoS) based on the Tendermint consensus.

### Fast and stable transaction
By applying slashing logic to defend against malicious network attacks by Byzantine nodes, we can decrease the inefficient resources required to maintain an invariance and completeness of transaction, while also ensuring the security and reliability of real-time finance and payment services.

## Features
### EVM(Ethereum Virtual Machine) Support
Tycan fully supports Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). Taycan is designed to be compatible with the Ethereum mainnet, which is the most widely used smart contract platform. Smart contract, which began with the advent of Ethereum, is not dependent on specific operating systems because it operates on Ethereum virtual machines. With these advantages, EVM has become the foundation of the most popular smart contract.
The support of EVM means that the majority of current decentralized Applications (dApps) and their ecosystem components can be run in Taycan without changes or with minor modifications. This will support developer communities with ease, and also developers can implement various applications and services using familiar programming languages such as JavaScript and Python. Consequently, those applications will serve as the technical foundation for the numerous platforms that Tycan will support.

### Ethereum Bridge (to be developed)
Tycan supports transactions between Ethereum and EVM-based token, including all chains that are applicable to Inter‐Blockchain Communication protocol (IBC), and is also compatible with Ethereum wallets and automated market maker (AMM). Through a highly decentralized permissionless bridge, Taycan will enable interconnectedness with Ethereum ecosystem.

### Token Issuance Support
Taycan supports the creation of tokens that adhere to the most common token standards, such as ERC20, ERC721, ERC1155, etc. Tokens generated by smart contract become basic assets that may be transferred and traded, as well as used to create or distribute independent services via decentralized Applications (dApps) built on improved scalability chains.

## Consensus Mechanisms
### Advanced scalability and transaction safety
Proof of Work (PoW) is a practical mechanism for implementing a decentralized network, but cannot guarantee the completeness of a single transaction, and requires many participants to maintain security. The ongoing growth of wallets and hashes inevitably leads to a decline in chain speed, as well as scalability limitations such as excessive energy use in both write and verification processes, and an increase in transaction fees due to gas cost competition.
To overcome these limitations of scalability and Byzantine problems (malicious attacks and hacking), Taycan adopts a method that combines Proof of Authority (PoA) and Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS). 
All system parameters (slash quantity, fee, etc.) for controlling the operation of chain are determined through the proposal and voting of validators elected from the governance based on staking, thereby solving the problems of authority concentration in existing protocols and supplementing security vulnerability.

### Enhanced security
By deriving Byzantine nodes (double signatures and non-signatures etc.) that deviate from authorized protocol and eliminating them from the verification cycle within a short period of time, security is ensured, making malicious acts such as clone attacks exceedingly difficult or worthless. Byzantine nodes excluded from this procedure are penalized by having their staking amounts deducted. Slashing is a part of the on-chain governance to punish negative behavior, and anyone can submit a slashing request, even if it cannot be immediately punished by the module. If the slashing governance is successful, a portion of the deducted stake from the disqualified nodes is paid to the slashing requester as a reward.

## Service Roadmap
### Blockchain-based payment API support
Hupayx is a project to enable cryptocurrency for payment. Cryptocurrency payment has the potential to be used as a means of global payment by significantly lowering the high fee related to the conventional central payment system, and enabling quick and direct transactions between overseas counterparts. However, there remains issues to be resolved to attain a certain level of practicality, such as processing of canceled payments, refunds, and settling disputes between the parties.
Taycan therefore provides a new payment method similar to the conventional payment system by utilizing the refund functions of ERC-20 token and smart contract designed within boundaries of EIP-5528 standards. After verifying the purchase details in accordance with the smart contract, the buyer can pay and sign, and the seller can then withdraw the money they received from the buyer. Moreover, a certain lock-in period can be set for the payment confirmation, providing flexibility which enables immediate offline payments between the parties at the same time establishing security and complete trust.
Based on Taycan, Hupayx supports such procedures as an API (Application Programming Interface). Developers or project members who develop with this API can provide a trusted service and a confirmation process of purchasing into their system, which results in various utility in both online and offline payments.


### Broad Community Support
Through Taycan, Shuffle will help developers to build stable and fast services at low cost with little to no additional training and no modifications of development environment; at the same time providing a wide range of development chance to facilitate the expansion of the service area. 
In addition, with the launch of Taycan, various Decentralized finance (DeFi) business model and marketplaces such as auctions, AMM, bond trading, and staking became possible to be implemented. Furthermore, by supporting the development environment in various fields such as decentralized subscription services, real-based NFT transactions, fractional investment, collateral/loan platforms and games, its capabilities as a platform supporting its own ecosystem have also been enhanced.

### Token Issuance
Shuffle's native coin, SFL, functions in Taycan in the same way as ETH does on Ethereum.
To retain its identity as an upgraded version of the Hupayx, the company will transfer both HPX staked in current chain and remaining HPX to the SFL of the Taycan chain.
The SFL can be burned by the module, and it is possible to issue tokens as much as the value of the burned SFL. Newly issued tokens can be traded or distributed. However, the amount of tokens that can be issued is limited by the amount of SFLs available for token issuance, which is decided by the participant or adjusted by governance.

### The Access and Role of SFL Token
SFL has been rebranded from HPX and shall be a utility token of the open payment network, organizing the payment system "that is both coexistive and cooperative. SFL token can be obtained through individual trading on a centralized or decentralized exchange, but you can also receive SFL token as a reward for staking (proof of delegation) or marketing activities such as social influencers that promote merchants and payment usecase in Shuffle ecosystem. Taycan's payment system aims for a shared economic environment as well as a decentralized mechanism for dispersing earnings from activities between individuals.
The obtained SFL can be utilized and paid for at various affiliated stores via Shuffle App built on Taycan, and the user is provided with goods or services as a result. In such a decentralized environment, all the transactions of payment made with digital currency are recorded on the blockchain which allows anyone can search, and ensuring the invariance, and completeness.


## Token Distribution
Taycan mainnet is the inflation chain. SFL holders can delegate their coins to validators, which are utilized for transaction verification and governance voting. As a compensation for contributing to the chain, 90% of the total inflation is paid as a staking reward, and 10% is accumulated in the community pool and used through governance decisions. The initial issuance of SFL is 7,000,000,000 SFL, and the number of coins generated by inflation per year may vary depending on the bonding rate (the ratio of the total staked quantity). The total inflation coin is calculated as “Initial value * (1 + Maximum Inflation - bonding rate (Maximum inflation / Bonding target)”. The Initial value is 750,000,000, the Maximum inflation is 0.4, and the Bonding target is set to 0.66. When the total issuance increased by inflation reaches 10,000,000,000 SFL, the elimination of inflation is proposed to governance. The number and status of inflation are parameters that can be determined by governance.
The amount of private sale, team, company are bound to asset that cannot be allocated by the vesting module among the initial issuance quantity. Each allocation will be initiated according to the vesting start and end dates at following table.


|Allocation|Amount|Vesting|Vesting Start|Vesting End|
|------|---|---|---|---|
|Private sale1|1,000,000,000|1,000,000,000|2025.01|2033.04|
|Private sale2|1,000,000,000|1,000,000,000|2022.09|2024.12|
|Team|500,000,000|500,000,000|2023.01|2025.12|
|Marketing|819,730,547|
|Company|2,064,722,013|300,000,000|2022.09|2024.12|
|||900,000,000|2025.01|2033.04|
|Current Holders|1,615,547,440||||


periodProvision = initial value  *  bondingIncentive  
f(x)            = a           *  (1 + maxVariance - bondedRatio * (maxVariance / bondingTarget))  

a = 750,000,000 = initial value  
bondedRatio   = variable  = fraction of the staking tokens which are currently bonded  
maxVariance   = 0.4       = the max amount to increase inflation  
bondingTarget = 0.66      = our optimal bonded ratio
